This internship has been a great learning experience for me. I feel that I have a learnt a lot of new things over this past one month. 

One of the first things I learnt after coming here is to stop depending on others to come and teach you stuff like in school or college. This internship has changed the way I look at learning new things.
The first new concept i learnt is git. Git was a very fun and interesting to learn. It is a very useful concept that will be very useful in the future. I feel it was interesting because it was a completely different way to maintain files and keep track of the changes made to them. It makes one's life easier. I spent my first week learning all about git. At the end I was told to make a powerpoint on git which actually strengthened my understanding. The concept of git and version control is something i'm sure will help me throughout my career and I'm very happy that I got to learn about this concept.

The rest of my internship was spent by learning Javascript. I was Javascript was something that was going to rule the world on day and I was quite taken aback in the begining. But now at the end of the month, I'm really happy about how much progress I was able to make in learning javascript. It was really fun to learn. I was amazed at how much one can accomplish with javascript and at the cool applications of Javascript. The tasks that I was given allowed me to improve my understanding on different concepts of Javascript. Now after this past month, I feel quite confident about what I've learnt so far. I couldn't have learnt so much if it wasn't for the guidance of Mr. Muthu

List of concept I've learnt:

1) Basics of git:

	git init
	git status
	git add
	git commit
	git log
	git reset
	Remote repositories
	git remote add
	git pull
	git push
	git branch
	git checkout
	git merge

2) Basic HTML and CSS

3) Javascript: 
	
	Document object model and DOM methods
	Browser object model and methods.
	Different data types
	JS variables and scope of variables
	Conditional statement and loops
	JS strings and string methods
	JS objects
	JS Date object and methods
	JS functions
	JS arrays and array methods
	JS math functions
	JS events and event handlers
	Regular Expressions




